docs/tools.md, before:

# Tools

## Installation

### Flash

To install Lizard on your ESP32 run

```bash
sudo ./espresso.py flash <device_path>
```

Note that flashing may require root access (hence the sudo).
The command also does not work while the serial interface is busy communicating with another process.

### Robot Brain

The `espresso.py` script can also upload firmware on a [Robot Brain](https://www.zauberzeug.com/product-robot-brain.html)
where the microcontroller is connected to the pin header of an NVIDIA Jetson computer.

## Interaction

### Serial Monitor

Use the serial monitor to read the current output and interactively send [Lizard commands](language.md) to the microcontroller.

```bash
./monitor.py [<device_path>]
```

You can also use an SSH monitor to access a microcontroller via SSH:

```bash
./monitor_ssh.sh <user@host>
```

Note that the serial monitor cannot communicate while the serial interface is busy communicating with another process.

### Bus OTA

`serial_bus_ota.py` pushes firmware to a peer over a `SerialBus` coordinator.

```bash
./serial_bus_ota.py build/lizard.bin --port /dev/ttyUSB0 --id <peer_id> [--chunk-size 174] [--window 12]
```

- Chunk size: device advertises its cap in `__OTA_READY__`; default/build-time cap is 174 bytes. The host clamps to whatever the device reports.
- Window: how many chunks are in flight before waiting for an ack (defaults to 12; raising to ~16–24 can shorten transfers if the link is stable).

### Configure

Use the configure script to send a new startup script to the microcontroller.

```bash
./configure.py <config_file> <device_path>
```

Note that the configure script cannot communicate while the serial interface is busy communicating with another process.

## Development

### Prepare for Development

Install Python requirements:

```python
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install UART drivers: https://www.silabs.com/developers/usb-to-uart-bridge-vcp-drivers

Get all sub modules:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

### Compile Lizard

After making changes to the Lizard language definition or its C++ implementation, you can use the compile script to generate a new parser and executing the compilation in an Espressif IDF Docker container.

```bash
./compile.sh
```

To upload the compiled firmware you can use the `./espresso.py` command described above.

### Backtrace

In case Lizard terminates with a backtrace printed to the serial terminal, you can use the following script to print corresponding source code lines.

```bash
./backtrace.sh <addresses>
```

Note that the script assumes Espressif IDF tools being installed at `~/esp/esp-tools_4.4/` and a compiled ELF file being located at `build/lizard.elf`.

### Releasing

To build a new release, tag the commit with a "v" prefix, for example "v0.1.4".
A GitHub action will build the binary and create a new release.
After creation you can fill in a description if necessary.

Commit message:

update to work with bus connected to expander

docs/tools.md, after:

# Tools

## Installation

### Flash

To install Lizard on your ESP32 run

```bash
sudo ./espresso.py flash <device_path>
```

Note that flashing may require root access (hence the sudo).
The command also does not work while the serial interface is busy communicating with another process.

### Robot Brain

The `espresso.py` script can also upload firmware on a [Robot Brain](https://www.zauberzeug.com/product-robot-brain.html)
where the microcontroller is connected to the pin header of an NVIDIA Jetson computer.

## Interaction

### Serial Monitor

Use the serial monitor to read the current output and interactively send [Lizard commands](language.md) to the microcontroller.

```bash
./monitor.py [<device_path>]
```

You can also use an SSH monitor to access a microcontroller via SSH:

```bash
./monitor_ssh.sh <user@host>
```

Note that the serial monitor cannot communicate while the serial interface is busy communicating with another process.

### Bus OTA

`serial_bus_ota.py` pushes firmware to a peer over a `SerialBus` coordinator.

```bash
./serial_bus_ota.py build/lizard.bin --port /dev/ttyUSB0 --id <peer_id> [--chunk-size 174] [--window 12] [--expander p0]
```

- Chunk size: device advertises its cap in `__OTA_READY__`; default/build-time cap is 174 bytes. The host clamps to whatever the device reports.
- Window: how many chunks are in flight before waiting for an ack (defaults to 12; raising to ~16–24 can shorten transfers if the link is stable).
- Expander hop: pass `--expander <name>` (e.g. `p0`) when the coordinator sits behind an expander; the script pauses broadcasts on that expander via `core.pause_broadcasts()` before the transfer and resumes afterwards to keep the UART link clear.

### Configure

Use the configure script to send a new startup script to the microcontroller.

```bash
./configure.py <config_file> <device_path>
```

Note that the configure script cannot communicate while the serial interface is busy communicating with another process.

## Development

### Prepare for Development

Install Python requirements:

```python
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install UART drivers: https://www.silabs.com/developers/usb-to-uart-bridge-vcp-drivers

Get all sub modules:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

### Compile Lizard

After making changes to the Lizard language definition or its C++ implementation, you can use the compile script to generate a new parser and executing the compilation in an Espressif IDF Docker container.

```bash
./compile.sh
```

To upload the compiled firmware you can use the `./espresso.py` command described above.

### Backtrace

In case Lizard terminates with a backtrace printed to the serial terminal, you can use the following script to print corresponding source code lines.

```bash
./backtrace.sh <addresses>
```

Note that the script assumes Espressif IDF tools being installed at `~/esp/esp-tools_4.4/` and a compiled ELF file being located at `build/lizard.elf`.

### Releasing

To build a new release, tag the commit with a "v" prefix, for example "v0.1.4".
A GitHub action will build the binary and create a new release.
After creation you can fill in a description if necessary.
